[BEE-49946] Add data migration sizing script (#81)
cloudbees/cloudbees-examples: cloudbees-cd/es-to-os-migration/README.md

# Estimate data size of legacy CloudBees Analytics indexes

> In CloudBees CD/RO v2024.06.0, the CloudBees Analytics server was upgraded from Elasticsearch to OpenSearch. As part of the upgrade process from v2024.03.0 or earlier to v2024.06.0 or later, you must migrate your CloudBees Analytics to OpenSearch, as described on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CloudBees CD/RO v2024.06.0, the CloudBees Analytics server was upgraded from Elasticsearch to OpenSearch. As part of the upgrade process from v2024.03.0 or earlier to v2024.06.0 or later, you must migrate your CloudBees Analytics to OpenSearch, as described in:
```

* [Traditional migrations](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/trad-upgrade-to-os)
* [Kubernetes migrations](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/k8s-upgrade-to-os)

> To help roughly estimate the size of legacy CloudBees Analytics indexes data that will be migrated to your updated CloudBees Analytics server,  CloudBees has provided the [reporting-data-reindex.pl](reporting-data-reindex.pl) utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudBees has provided the [reporting-data-reindex.pl](reporting-data-reindex.pl) utility to help you roughly estimate the size of legacy CloudBees Analytics indexes data that will be migrated to your updated CloudBees Analytics server.
```

> > **IMPORTANT**  

Author: ```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
```

> As described in the [known issues of the data migration](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/data-migration-es-to-os#data-migration-known-issues), the migration options provided by CloudBees have a timeout of `180 minutes` per index to avoid unexpected hangs.
> In cases where an index contains a considerably large amount of data, and its migration does not complete within the timeout duration, the migration process fails.
>
> This may result in having to split such indexes into multiple smaller indexes. If you encounter multiple timeout issues, contact CloudBees support.

## Dependencies
This utility requires `cb-perl` to run, and is executable in any environment with a CloudBees CD/RO server or agent installation.

## Command Format

The format for launching the utility is as follows:

```sh

> $ /opt/cloudbees/sda/bin/cb-perl ./reporting-data-reindex.pl --showStatistics=1 --sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200 --sourceAuthUser=reportuser --sourceAuthPassword=<password>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ <cdro_install_dir>/bin/cb-perl ./reporting-data-reindex.pl --showStatistics=1 --sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200 --sourceAuthUser=reportuser --sourceAuthPassword=<password>
```

```

Where:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* <cdro_install_dir>: Directory where CD/RO server or agent is installed.
```

> * `--showStatistics=1`: The required parameter, which selects the mode of displaying index statistics.

Author: ```suggestion
* `--showStatistics=1`: *_Required_*. Specifies to display the index statistics.
```

> * `--sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200`: Specifies URL for the legacy CloudBees Analytics server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `--sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200`: Specifies the legacy CloudBees Analytics server URL.
```

> * `--sourceAuthUser=reportuser`: Specifies the username to authenticate to the legacy CloudBees Analytics server. By default, it is `reportuser`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `--sourceAuthUser=reportuser`: This setting specifies the username to authenticate to the legacy CloudBees Analytics server. By default, it is `reportuser`.
```

In CloudBees CD/RO v2024.06.0, the CloudBees Analytics server was upgraded from Elasticsearch to OpenSearch. As part of the upgrade process from v2024.03.0 or earlier to v2024.06.0 or later, you must migrate your CloudBees Analytics to OpenSearch, as described on:

* [Traditional migrations](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/trad-upgrade-to-os)
* [Kubernetes migrations](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/k8s-upgrade-to-os)

To help roughly estimate the size of legacy CloudBees Analytics indexes data that will be migrated to your updated CloudBees Analytics server,  CloudBees has provided the [reporting-data-reindex.pl](reporting-data-reindex.pl) utility.

> **IMPORTANT**  
> As described in the [known issues of the data migration](https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-cd/latest/troubleshooting/data-migration-es-to-os#data-migration-known-issues), the automated processes CloudBees has supplied to automate data migration have a timeout of `180 minutes` per index. This is roughly equivalent to `32,000,000` documents, which may vary based on the complexity of individual documents (number of fields, etc.).   
> 

> > If your indexes contain vastly more than 32,000,000 documents, or you reach the timeout limit for specific indexes, it may be necessary to split the specific index into a set of smaller indexes. For more information on this process, refer to the [Elasticsearch Split index API](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.17/indices-split-index.html) documentation.

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately using the spit index API will not do what we need here. The spit index API spits the documents in the index into more shards by increasing the number of primary shards. But the total number of documents in the index stay the same. The fix we need is to split the documents into multiple indexes...let me think about this and get back to you if we can document some instructions for users on how to do this. For now, we can remove the line on split index API.

## Dependencies
This utility requires `cb-perl` to run, and is executable in any environment with a CloudBees CD/RO server or agent installation.

## Command Format

The format for launching the utility is as follows:

```sh
$ /opt/cloudbees/sda/bin/cb-perl ./reporting-data-reindex.pl --showStatistics=1 --sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200 --sourceAuthUser=reportuser --sourceAuthPassword=<password>
```

Where:

* `--showStatistics=1`: The required parameter, which selects the mode of displaying index statistics.

* `--sourceUrl=https://<hostname>:9200`: Specifies URL for the legacy CloudBees Analytics server.

> * `--sourceAuthUser=reportuser`: Specifies the username to authenticate to the legacy CloudBees Analytics server. But default, it is `reportuser`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--sourceAuthUser=reportuser`: Specifies the username to authenticate to the legacy CloudBees Analytics server. By default, it is `reportuser`.
```

Author: Updated with [3474237](https://github.com/cloudbees/cloudbees-examples/pull/81/commits/3474237df126100a21f873735287d5f8cbfaefd5).
